[Link to paper](https://ageconsearch.umn.edu/record/287970/).

Back to [[Overview]]

Abstract: This article explains incentives that individuals face when deciding whether to support legislation on farm-animal treatment. We analyze precinct- and town-level voting patterns in two successful referendum votes (California’s Prop 2 and Massachusetts’s Question 3) that restricted animalhousing practices. In both cases, support for the referendum was positively correlated with support for the Democratic candidate for president and negatively correlated with employment in agriculture; support for Question 3 increased with income. We use our regression results to predict how voters in other U.S. states would have voted had they faced similar referendums in 2008 and 2016.

Notes:
- "To test the hypotheses about what may have caused voters to support the referendum enabling the California law, commonly known as Prop 2, we merge data on precinct-level election results for California in 2008 with census data on economic and social characteristics of the voting population in these precincts. We also merge town-level voting data from Massachusetts in 2016 with census data and test the same empirical model in the context of the vote on Question 3." - Okay so they use precinct level data. You can update by using 2018 ballot initiative, and by doing forecasting exercise. But it is kind of a tired literature.
- Findings:
	- Support for referendum correlated with Democrat voting, and with income (although not significantly so when demographic controls included). Also negatively correlated with workers employed in agriculture.
	- Okay that's basically all they do. So there is still lots more to consider here.
- You can also look at how affiliations changed between 2008 and 2018 poll! Yes that adds a new dimension that people haven't looked at before. Nice job! This could turn into a really nice paper.
- Nice background on prop 2. However, needs some more info on why this didn't do much for veal crates or pregnant sows.
- Read up on veal crate situation. I remember reading that they may now have been successfully phased out, perhaps due to Florida ban. That would be something worth noting.
- Important note - "Only one farm in Massachusetts is expected to be affected by these restrictions (Shea, 2016), which will go into effect in 2022, so Massachusetts voters (should have) understood that the primary effects of the law would be to increase the cost of egg consumption in the state by banning the conventional product rather than affecting the economic welfare of Massachusetts farmers". This affects how well exposure to farming can predict from this model.
- Good to keep in mind - "It may be useful to introduce some concrete information on the egg market and the cost of banning the consumption of conventional eggs in California and Massachusetts. On average, a hen lays about 20 dozen eggs per year (see Table 1). In the United States, egg production (i.e., availability) is approximately 23 dozen eggs per person per year. Thus, a rough generalization is that each hen produces the eggs to feed one person; an individual’s decision to consume cage-free or other eggs associated with PIAW (hereafter, PIAW eggs) affects (on average) about one hen." This is actually powerful for nonfiction writing.
- "Prop 2 represents a relatively unusual policy question in that Democrats supported it despite its disproportionately negative effect on the poor.7 Our results show limited evidence that voters were more likely to support PIAW legislation in higher-income areas. This result contrasts with the findings of Brunner, Ross, and Washington (2011), who found that positive economic shocks led to greater support for what they termed “conservative” referendums, whether fiscal or social." - this second study could be worth looking at.
- "A few studies have considered voter support for legislation related to animal treatment. Some of these researchers (Tonsor, Wolf, and Olynk, 2009; Tonsor and Wolf, 2011; Richards, Allender, and Fang, 2013; Norwood, Tonsor, and Lusk, 2019) employed surveys to ascertain factors that influenced support for hypothetical restrictions similar to Prop 2. Smithson et al. (2014) used countylevel voting and demographic data to characterize the vote on Prop 2. Shortcomings in Smithson et al. (2014), in particular substantially less rich data, limited the reliability and robustness of their findings." - could be useful to look at these survey studies.
- It would be really great to integrate data like this with Nielsen panel data, if you had access. Maybe you will once you're working at Reglab. You should write this down as a study idea.
- "Some studies (Norwood and Lusk, 2011b; Alphonce, Alfnes, and Sharma, 2014; Norwood, Tonsor, and Lusk, 2019) have postulated or found evidence to suggest that discrepancies between individuals’ preferences expressed at the ballot box and in the marketplace can be attributed to concerns about free-riding. Furthermore, banning conventionally-produced eggs improves welfare for all hens, so the perceived public-good benefits of the ban far exceed an individual-level decision to consume PIAW eggs—against approximately the same cost." - this is a great point. People have a preference for policy because it actually solves the problem in a non-negligible way. This seems very rational to me.
- The three theoretical reasons they posit for difference between voting and consumption behavior:
	- Lack of full information/rationality when making voting decision
	- Public good nature of vote; higher expected consequence
	- Non-typical utility functions.
	- Also: "In fact, Brennan and Lomasky (1993) illustrate that in large democracies, when a voter’s expressive utility gains (gains from the actual expression of preferences at the ballot box) from voting for a policy change are positive but the effects on utility from a change in policy are negative, it is probabilistically optimal to vote for the policy change."
- You can update with better ACS data.
- They drop a bunch of states that voted 100% in either direction, as this is apparently necessary for logit model. Can you find away around this? Seems pretty undesirable to drop all of those states.
- "Precincts with fewer votes cast tended to be in rural areas, and support for Prop 2 and Question 3 tended to be lower in rural areas. In addition, the variance of the vote outcome decreases as the number of votes increases. We control for this bias and heteroskedasticity by weighting the regressions by the number of votes on the respective referendums in each precinct or town to ensure that the precincts and towns with more voters receive more weight." - Important.
- "We also include as an explanatory variable the share of workers in each precinct or town employed in agriculture and related industries. Although the egg industry comprises a small share of all agriculture and agricultural employment in both California and Massachusetts, we suspect that residents of rural communities with relatively more farms and farm workers may oppose additional regulation of agriculture because of their general positive attitudes toward farming and the direct economic effects of agricultural regulations on their communities" - could we actually include the number of these farms in California and Mass now? Not sure.
- Darn they do the forecasting exercise! Ok maybe I don't have a paper here :(
- "In particular, per capita income had a stronger effect on support for PIAW legislation in Massachusetts in 2016 than it had in California in 2008. Meanwhile, support for the Democratic candidate for president was a strong predictor of support for PIAW legislation in California in 2008, while it was insignificant in our full regression specification for Massachusetts in 2016. In both states, voters in towns with a larger share (i.e., a less-small share) of voters employed in agriculture were likely to oppose the PIAW legislation."
- Find that Democratic support coefficient was robust in Cali, but not in Mass.
- Find that it would pass in basically every state. But Smithson finds it wouldn't pass in many. How come? This is a central question that your paper should ask!! Ok I think that's a worthwhile research question. 