[Link to paper](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w26146/w26146.pdf).

Back to [[Overview]]

Abstract: Economists recommend Pigouvian taxes as the most efficient way to fight climate change. Yet, carbon taxes are difficult to implement politically. To understand why, we study Washington State’s two failed carbon tax referendums from 2016 and 2018—the first such votes in the United States. We find that average voters’ opposition to the carbon tax can partly be explained by the anticipation of higher energy costs. Meanwhile, ideology—as measured by voting on other initiatives—explains 90% of variation in voting across precincts. These results suggest that ideology plays a crucial role in driving opposition to carbon taxes. We find that revenue recycling interacts with ideology: conservatives preferred the 2016 revenue-neutral policy, while liberals preferred the 2018 green-spending policy. Finally, we forecast that no other state is liberal enough to pass Washington’s policies. Thus, opinion surveys showing majority support for the carbon tax can be misleading.

Notes:
- First question to answer is: what drives support for animal welfare ballot initiative?
- They use precinct-level elections data from Washington state, so seems this approach should be possible.
- They find that some latent variable called "Ideology" explains 90% of the variation. Footnote three cites some papers that look more at this latent variable. This would be good to understand.
- How to match to U.S. Census data is describes on page 9. Honestly looks a little involved. Review and write a plan.
- They remove precincts with less than 50 votes (to more precisely esimate latent partisanship and ideology).
- It seems they don't use the LASSO anymore. You should email him and ask him why.
- Ok they do provide some motivation for the whole ideology measure thing: "To probe deeper, we estimate an additional regression model (7) in table 3. This model is identical to model (6) in the table but replaces the ideological index (Conservatism) with “yes” vote shares for all twelve of the individual ballot measures (i.e., included simultaneously). Figure 3 reports the coefficient estimates on these variables. Support for repealing a clean car subsidy and repealing an oil pipeline tax both correlate negatively with support for a carbon tax. This is perhaps not surprising, given that these policies also have direct environmental implications. What is noteworthy for our model of ideology, however, is that support for tighter gun control and higher minimum wages—largely or entirely unrelated social and economic policies— also correlate (positively) with support for a carbon tax. This result is consistent, however, with the notion of ideology acting as a psychological constraint on beliefs and policy preferences (Converse 1964)."
- "Strikingly, upon adding precinct-level ideology, the share voting Republican totally vanishes as a predictor of relative support, while the coefficient on ideology remains as high as ever (column 4). Again, these inferences are robust to including county-level fixed effects (column 6). Replacing the ideology variable with support for each of the ballot initiatives does not substantially change the coefficient on Republican (column 7)." - this is quite interesting. I think this is a strong motivation for including something like this ideology variable in your own analysis.
- You should do fixed effect analysis and do regressions with dummies for other issues for robustness checks as done here. I think you should basically copy this methodology.
- Robustness checks to learn from:
	- You should run Meager's procedure to check sensitivity to outliers. A great excuse to read that paper also.
	- They have a section on robustness checks for turnout. "Lang and Pearson-Merkowitz (2021) show that the bias is less severe for small levels of geographic aggregation and when voter turnout is high."
		- "To further explore this issue, we repeated the regressions from table 3 using the carbon tax turnout (i.e., total votes on the carbon tax divided by the total number of registered voters) as the outcome variable. See table 12 in appendix F. We show numerically in this appendix that the correlations with turnout we estimate are too small to appreciably affect our results, i.e. the regression results in table 3 are valid both for the voting population and for the underlying populations of residents and registered voters." - this is a good approach.
	- They have a section where they explore the degree to which tax incidence might affect support for a carbon tax. I think you could have a similar section for meat consumption or meat production in a precinct if you can manage to find such numbers. That's definitely going to be tricky though.
	- Do they account for voter turnout on these things? You need to think carefully about the forecasting exercie, and what disclaimers you have to provide.
	- Email authors to ask why they moved away from LASSO specification.
	- You should read into these non parametric regression methods they use. I really wish I had learned some of those!!
	- You should read the appendix on turnout analysis. This is really important for your paper to look at.
