[Link to paper](https://ageconsearch.umn.edu/record/312710/files/Abstracts_21_06_14_13_30_59_24__98_226_119_205_0.pdf)

Back to [[Overview]]

Abstract: Over the past two decades, numerous agricultural policies have been enacted in all 50 U.S. states through legislative bills and/or majority-vote ballot initiatives. In the last 19 years, two dozen regulations involving farm animal welfare (FAW) in the form of both state legislative bills and ballot initiatives have been proposed, with 19 making it to a vote in 12 states. These regulations can have significant impact on agricultural producers and markets through vote-buy gaps and unfunded mandates. Previous literature on these types of ballot initiatives has examined the relationship between voting patterns and county demographic information to infer whether similar measures would pass in other states. A common finding in this research is that widespread adoption would occur, however, this has not been the case. In this paper, we utilize a two-stage model to estimate the success of FAW legislation and ballot initiatives. We model whether such regulations are considered in a given state and then, if considered, the likelihood the measures are passed. Using these adjusted models, we predict FAW adoption outcomes for all 50 states and find significant improvement in the predictions.

Notes:
- This is a good topic for a paper.
- I'm not sure this model is good, and I don't know if I think data should be treated continuously.
- Oddly, they also use a linear model, rather than logit.
- They use dummies for size of agriculture rather than anything remotely serious.
- Why drop counties with less than 2,000 inhabitants? So curious....
- I didn't understand the methodology super well. But I'm not sure that I buy that this was a huge improvement. Read this from their implications: "We generate predictions for all 50 states for both the unadjusted (consistent with previous literature) and adjusted models (Table 10). In reality, 26% of all 50 states and 41.7% of the 24 ballot initiative states 481 have passed FAW regulations. Our unadjusted model predicts a 54% pass rate for FAW regulations in all 50 states, with a 50% pass rate for the 24 ballot states. With our adjusted 483 model, we predict that 28% of all 50 states and 25% of the 24 ballot states would pass FAW regulations. The significant decrease in the predicted pass rates for all 50 states is much closer to the actual percentage of states with FAW regulations in place (26%). Furthermore, our adjusted model is 66% and 58.3% accurate in predicting the presence of a FAW law in all 50 states and the 24 ballot states, respectively. On the other hand, the unadjusted model is only 46% and 45.8% accurate for all 50 states and the 24 ballot states, respectively" - Ok but who says the rest of these states won't pass them eventually? It seems like there is plenty progress on this, bottleneck may be lobbying capacity. Furthermore, their predictions for states with ballot measures is far, far lower. I do think there is something to the point that it makes, though. This could be a nice model to work on or improve? Just didn't understand it so well.
- This list of places it would pass is fascinating though: Georgia it would still pass with the IMR adjusted model. Wow! Also Indiana! But the IMR model prediction is wrong for Massachusetts... strange. I don't trust this model at all. It also used county level data I believe. Rhode Island IMR prediction is also wrong... I think IMR might underpredict for liberal states.

Is there a difference in the change in attitudes toward animals depending on whether a bill or ballot is proposed? That's actually a super interesting question! Oh wow you should definitely look into this if you can.

How can I study this? You could look at donation data, google search data, are there any recurring polls? Potentially meat demand if you can find robust measures, but tricky when price might also covary. But it shouldn't covary systematically over states no? But referendums were not at the same time.