---
type:
aliases:
  - 
tags:
  - ifp
---
Thoughts on the workshop:
1. I hadn't realized the innovation problem generated by the fact that regulators have a standard. It means that the discovery process of good new trial designs and procedures is a lot less decentralized.
	1. It also seems like many clinical trial innovations are likely to be unpatentable. Parallel with surrogate endpoints work.
2. The clinical trial modernization act stuff was interesting. What are your thoughts on it?
3. Your point about whether lowering clinical trial costs increasing innovation is interesting. Not necessarily so obvious! Could induce competition.
	1. Maybe your point was more about prices.
4. I think we need more clarity around the challenges in early clinical trial delays. I don't understand why companies would overreport if the turnaround for denial is only 30 days.


What is it that you should tell Matt tomorrow:
- Surrogate endpoints.
	- I don't have elaborate thoughts, but I think it's the most compelling market failure and a high leverage opportunity. Here's how I'd think about taking it forward:
		- I'd want to better understand the kind of value on the table. How much value generated if we had surrogate endpoints for some more diseases?
		- I'd want to think a bit about what a roughly optimal mechanism would look like. 
		- Then I'd want to think about what might be feasible in terms of policy levers. 
			- How would you define "use" in a regulatory finding?
			- What are ways you might be able enact something like a property right?
		- ^ It would be useful to learn who is on the ball for 
- Some biosecurity project.
	- Far-UVC incentivization.
		- Still unsure about this. 
	- Broad mapping of how CMS could be used to advance biosecurity.
	- Biotechnology Management Office, although broadly their agenda seems more US-China competition oriented. 
	- Maybe some market shaping ideas, sort of MSA style but more flexible in thinking.
- Other ideas
	- Incentivizing trial participation, but don't want to be glib.
	- Suzetrigine and related products. Setting out a set of the highest impact molecules you could do this for. 
	- More academic style work on the push-pull tradeoff (or complementarity)
	- Takedown of PASTEUR act

You should communicate that you generally hope to trend more in the direction of biosecurity.

Questions I'd like to ask Matt:
- How are you thinking about the strategic landscape vis-a-vis large potential influx of money? What kind of work is becoming more valuable? What's becoming less?
- What would be helpful for me to read between now and my start date?
	- Am doing general biosecurity and innovation econ reading, but anything specific would be useful.
- What else should I do to prepare for my start?
- What are your priorities for the next six - twelve months? What about Olivia?
	- How will team grow?
- 


- Come with somewhat mature thoughts on surrogate endpoints.
- Think you should come with some idea on CMS, but should not uncertainty about whether funding is constraint.
	- Suzetrigine opportunity is something you can mention.
		- Can you very crudely sketch out a general schema for this idea? A few potential drugs, how it could be implemented. 
	- Far-UVC incentivization.
		- Read up a few articles on how far-UVC works and cases where valuable. 
		- Note Gavriel mention of high intensity far-UVC.
	- I think you should come with a mapping basically of different ways CMS could be used for biosecurity. Make an incredibly long list of candidate ideas and then winnow down. 
- Question about how elastomerics are distributed in a crisis. Ask around how solid our plans are on this.
- Plan on engaging with Biotechnology management office
	- What ways can we advance useful stuff with them? You could potentially be very helpful here.
- My last point was doing more academic style work on the push-pull tradeoff, note that I have some initial idea.

So each of the above is like a subtask. My guess is that the priority is the following:
- **Ideas on how to use CMS**. This is what will excite Matt the most. Note your skepticism. Start with the biosecurity stuff then move into the more general innovation. 
	- I think you want both suzetrigine and far-UVC. Then can mention broader mapping pitch.
	- One 
- **Plan for engaging with Biotechnology Management Office.** Come with a broader appreciation of what this office will be engaged in beyond pull. Outline some pull plans and targets that we should seek to get into their report to Congress. Also feed this through to Senator Todd Young's office.
- **Surrogate endpoints.** I actually think it's fine if least developed thoughts on this, just have read a bit of innovation literature for next time you interact with Ruxandra.

- 