---
type: Weekly Note
aliases:
  -
tags: weekly-note
---
[[2024, Week 1|Last week]] | [[2024, Week 3|Next week]]
##### <span style="color:orange">This week in past years</span>
```dataviewjs
// set your own minimum year and the path to your journals (if applicable)
const minYear = 2024;
const journalPath = 'Journal/Weekly';

const rangeOfYears = (start, end) => Array(end - start + 1)
  .fill(start)
  .map((year, index) => year + index);
const d = moment(dv.current().file.name, "YYYY[, Week] w");
const currentYear = d.year();
const availableYears = rangeOfYears(minYear, currentYear - 1);
const week = d.week()

availableYears.forEach((y) => {
	var note = dv.page(`${journalPath}/${y}, ${week}`);
	if (note) {
		dv.el('span', `[[${note.file.path}|${y}]] `);
	}
});
```
##### <span style="color:orange">This week's notes</span>
```dataview
LIST
FROM "Journal/Daily"
WHERE date(file.name).week = date(this.file.name, "kkkk', Week' W").week  AND date(file.name).year = date(this.file.name, "kkkk', Week' W").year
SORT file.day ASC
```
## Reflection
### What went well?
[[2024, Week 2#"What would you like to achieve next week"|Last week's goals for reference]]
- I achieved a reasonable balance of working and spending time with my Dad.
- Dad helped me get out of my rut by taking me to see Line and Dev. Since then I've been feeling less bad about Climate Refarm, although today I've been thinking a lot about the counterfactual harm we may have done by advancing Verra's work on it.
- I think I've started sleeping better, and I am feeling more optimistic about developing some health habits.

### What did not go that well?
- I sometimes snapped at Dad. I'd like to basically never raise my voice or become snarky; it never helps a situation.
- I missed my call with Joshua. I am working on improving my organization.

### What made you laugh this week?


### What new thing did you notice about yourself or someone else?
- Meeting with Leise made me notice how I'm prone to tell versions of stories that suit my own self-image. In this instance, it was telling her that I hadn't really started looking at new jobs ― which I totally had! I'd like to improve on this moving forward.
- Lucy is so great at asking questions, and I feel I'm falling behind in being an equal conversation partner. I notice it in a lot of my conversations that I often feel like the passive party, or the party letting down a flow. I think it's related to not being entirely present, and a slower processing speed.

### What would you like to achieve next week?
- Finish a draft of the updated concept note expanding the AMC model to other sectors.
- Have identified other jobs and master's programs you can apply to.
- Have made an outline for working on the methane project.
- Go ice skating once, ideally twice.
- Finish reading the Battle over Patents and The Pickup.

#task Create weekly goals overview for our right pane.

## Week at a Glance
