### Note on HSUS Research Direction
I recently came across [this answer](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/Tu49CKohfNZZ33WXp/ama-lewis-bollard-open-philanthropy?commentId=Km9XNy8a3DMSmsc6A) on an Ask Me Anything forum post with [Lewis Bollard](https://www.openphilanthropy.org/about/team/lewis-bollard) at Open Philanthropy. He mentions that there is research that suggests there is typically a huge gap between self-reported consumption change and actual consumption change in the existing literature on this (unfortunately he doesn't provide links, but there are some citations in the second paragraph of [this paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306919220301548?casa_token=JxXZxxaWbOcAAAAA:AJjqJlNOYZ6_TfzCLgFEL7rSKt_NOexZsKUghBN47REpcj6Zae7-CYzRaz88jMhA6Buz64aq_Q)). 

Reading this has made me sceptical of the value of using a survey to ask questions about self-reported consumption changes. While getting a sense of self-reported consumption changes (or changes in self-reported consumption) could be helpful for MFA or HSUS Forward Food to promote the programs, I'm not they can be confidently interpreted as effects, or be used to inform broader movement strategy.

I liked Dennis' idea from the meeting with Stephen to try to infer consumption changes from purchasing changes. Maybe we could ask the organizations we're partnering with if it would be possible to look at their procurement data.

Additionally, I was thinking that it might be best to make our survey of employees focus on beliefs and attitudes, as opposed to asking about behavior changes we can't observe. One paper I recalled recently that I think could inspire our research is [this paper on misperceived social norms.](https://home.uchicago.edu/bursztyn/Misperceived_Norms_2020_3_6.pdf) The authors conduct a randomized control trial in Saudi Arabia where they ask men about their views about women working outside of the home, and also ask them what they think the views of their neighbors are. They then return to a randomly selected subset, and inform them about what the actual views of their neighbors/reference class are (which are typically less proscriptive of women working outside of the home than they expected). They show that providing this information increased willingness of the randomly selected men to help their wives enroll in job recruitment programs. They also document a number of other interesting findings that tend to show correcting this misperceived social norm shifted barriers to womens' participation in labor markets. You can get a quick sense of by reading the introduction to the paper.

I'm wondering whether our research could take inspiration from these findings? Perhaps some people have misperceptions about how cool / socially acceptable plant-based eating is, or would feel more motivated to do it if they knew other people (privately) hold it in higher regard than they expect (conditional on this being true, of course). I wonder if it would be possible to do something like an experiment around this - perhaps if we were able to work with two different companies or something?

Let me know if this inspires any ideas in you! There is also a lot more research in the paper's review of the literature that could inspire differnet avenues.

